0. Distributed system: a group of computers working together as to appear as a single computer to the end-user. These machines have a shared state, operate concurrently and can fail independently without affecting the whole system’s uptime.

1. Vertical scale: upgrade the performance of a host
   Horizontal scale: incrase the number of hosts

2. Fault tolerance: error in one host will not impact all
   Low latency: time in communications among all hosts

3. Master-Slave Replication: master host for read + write and slave hosts for read only. When new record is inserted to master, an async process will update the record with slave hosts.
   Pitfall: data could be inconsistent as propagating new information from master to slave may not be immediate

4. Multi-master Replication: create multiple master hosts
   Pitfall: data conflicts, i.e., insert two records with the same ID

5. Sharding/Partitioning: split all servers into multiple smaller servers (called shards). For example, for people's names, split by first character.
   Pitfall: difficult to query all data by keys other than the partitioned key. 

6. Decentralized system: a special distributed system. However, it is not owned by one actor. Most distributed systems today are not *decentralized*. 

7. CAP Theorem: a distributed data store cannot simultaneously be Consistent, Available and Partition tolerant. (chose 2 among 3)
   - Consistency: a read request for an entity made to any nodes returns the same data
   - Availability: the whole system never dies
   - Paritition tolerant: the system continues to function and uphold its consistency/availability guarantees in spite of network partitions.

   In practice, most applications cares more availability. Data consistency is not required. 

8. Eventual consistency: data of each node of the database gets consistent eventually. In other words, it will take time for updates to reach other nodes.
   Pro: low latency
   Pitfall: stale data

9. Strong consistency: immediately update with all nodes.
   Pro: absolute consistent
   Pitfall: high latency

10. Distributed File Systems: can be thought as distributed data stores.

11. Distributed Messaging
    - Message: is a broadcast from application which create it (called producer), goes into the platform and is read by multiple applications which are interested in it (called consumer)